= Minutes for September 26, 2024

== Attendees

 * Ana Pazos (Qualcomm)
 * Christoph MÃ¼llner (VRULL)
 * Jeff Scheel (Individual, RVI documentation SIG)
 * Carl Perry (Individual, RVI documentation SIG)
 * Craig Topper (SiFive)
 * Jiawei (ISCAS)
 * Kito Cheng (SiFive)
 * Olaf Bernstein (Individual)
 * Petr Penzin (Tenstorrent)
 * Philip Reames (Rivos)
 * Simon Cook (Embecosm)

== Artifacts

* https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1H3mKVMrb8mDN-GSNboEnPpsS7z8WKrhF-dEPTEG8mkc/edit#[Slides]

== Topics
* Christoph provided an overview of RVI Matrix extensions and discussed the
request to support the Matrix extension PoC that includes a proposal for
creating a MLIR dialect and a proposal for API specification for high
performance computing libraries/packages. The proposals will be described in a follow up
email to the group to gather interest from volunteers.
* Ana shared that besides IREE, Triton is also a platform to consider.
In addition, selecting some kernels to valid the proposals should be considered,
for example Matmul kernels from IREE's Benchmark Suite.
* Petr Penzin expressed interest in HPC and will take a look at the APIs for
performance libraries.
* Ana shared the availability of a new
https://github.com/riscv/docs-dev-guide[Documentation Developer Guide].
The RVI documentation SIG is accepting feedback comments by October 9th, and a
linter tool will be made available soon after. Ana will run the tool over the
Toolchain SIG specs and address issues reported. Anyone pushing patches to the
specs should be made aware of the tool's availability and comply.
* Carl Perry who is from the RVI documentation SIG clarified that the
Documentation Developer Guide will not go through the specs ratification process.
* Carl Perry and Jeff Scheel raised the need to have tooling consistency
across all RVI efforts.
* Christoph clarifed that riscv-gnu-toolchain will not be officially released.
Nightly builds are made available, but no rigorous test validations are done.
Issues with nightly builds should be brought up in GNU lists upstream.
Anything other than putting out version info about what was built is
out of the scope of this group.
* Philip Reames corroborated with what Christoph said. The SIG is not
structured nor funded to pick up the work of official releases.
He agreed about the need to get people from other RVI efforts off the
old toolchains.
* Carl Perry clarified that the version info is useful and he would like
to add support in riscv-gnu-toolchain for other hosts and target
architectures including ARM. He will send a proposal with more details to
the group's mailing list.
* Open floor discussions: No discussion.
* Christoph reminded of the next meetings:
** Oct 24, 2024: Toolchains - Canceled, overlaps with RISC-V Summit.
** Nov 11, 2024: psABI - Canceled, overlaps with Veterans' Day in the US.
** Nov 21, 2024: Toolchains - Meeting confirmed.
