= Minutes for August 08, 2024

== Attendees

 * Ana Pazos (Qualcomm)
 * Christoph MÃ¼llner (VRULL)
 * Jeff Law (Ventana)
 * Kito Cheng (SiFive)
 * Philip Reames (Rivos)
 * Note: list of participants might be incomplete.

== Artifacts

*   https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1nd9m0Uu1M_kpr8WBJO1ixeqoMByuI25P[Slides]

== Topics
* Christoph provided update on Profiles support in GNU toolchain.
* Ana provided update on AsciiDoc migration and requested people to review.
** Christoph facing errors with make build commands on Fedora 40.
** Jeff suggested reaching out to: Kersten (kersten@riscv.org),
Bill Traynor (wmat@riscv.org) and Docs SIG mailing list.
** Christoph would like to review/merge AsciiDoc migration patches before more
changes are made into the documents requiring patch rebasing.

* Christoph highlighted recent activities in SIG Toolchain related
repos: C-API, Asm manual, Toolchain conventions, C-API.
*  For riscv-gnu-toolchain, Christoph requested volunteers to bump
GCC to 14.2.0 and talked about the need to update the tests ignore-lists.
See https://github.com/riscv-collab/riscv-gnu-toolchain/pull/1472[#1472].

* Open floor discussions
** Ana talked about Zcmp ABI issue which was posted in https://wiki.riscv.org/display/HOME/Technical+Newsletter?preview=/60981271/90275898/riscv-tech-newsletter-20240705.pdf[RVI July Newsletter].
** Christoph commented the issue got moderate traction.
**  Philip commented the best way to move forward is to find people who care
about the issue to get their support.
** Christoph reminded of the next meetings:
Aug 15: psABI, Aug 29: Toolchains SIG and informed that he will be OOO.
Ana volunteered to run the meeting if needed.
