= Minutes for December 19, 2024

== Attendees

 * Ana Pazos (Qualcomm)
 * Christoph MÃ¼llner (VRULL)
 * Carl Perry (Individual)
 * Craig Topper (SiFive)
 * Isaac Chute (RISC-V)
 * Liao Shihua (ISCAS)
 * Peter Hosek (Google)
 * Philip Reames (Rivos)
 * Ruinland (Andes Technology)
 * Sam Elliott (Qualcomm)
 * Simon Cook (Embecosm)

== Artifacts

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bamxiveg5gmo6KkuGDmntfHb9BJYdq2LFz0L6RQJVlU/edit#slide=id.gb5f973ee2a_0_594[Slides]

== Topics
* Christoph pointed out that patches for Profiles support in GNU Toolchain
have been pending for a while, but already reviewed by Jeff and Palmer, and
Toolchain conventions PR is already in place. Christoph to ping Jeff about it.
* Christoph merged CI/CD workflows to this SIG's documents based on the RVI docs
template.  He asked volunteers for publishing the docs as draft pre-releases.
Ana and Carl volunteered to help.
* Christoph provided a summary of the issues in CI/CD build of
riscv-gnu-toolchain project.
* ASM Manual: Add V extension pseudoinstructions (#111) [OPEN] - Christoph
requested Craig to review it.
* ASM Manual: Add new directive to creating landing pad info (#113) [OPEN] -
The issue is still under discussion.
* ASM Manual: Is there a CI job or are there releases of this document? (#112)
[OPEN] - We are working on it, as a first step Christoph merged the CI/CD
flow from RVI docs template in this SIG's documents.
* C-API: [FMV] Explicit allows different vendors share the bit definition of
`__riscv_vendor_feature_bits` #96 - Waiting for community comments.
* C-API: Introduce new attribute norelax #94 - It was concluded the
attribute is not needed.
* C-API: Add CMO extension intrinsics #93 and cbo Intrinsic #88 -
Christoph pointed out that GNU toolchain and LLVM need to align on
this API. Craig clarified that support for CMO was merged in GCC as CBO.
Sam explained the history in AArch64 for the need for a target-specific
prefetch builtin to account for LLVM's target indendent builtin differences
in specifying cache locality levels. See
https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/commit/82b51a14280414a53413ed62c001d2c589c649c3
Craig confirmed it is a similar issue in RISC-V where
LLVM prefetch builtin has 4 locality levels and RISC-V target has 5 levels.
Christoph to reach out to Jeff Law about reverting the patch in GCC and
agree on the API.
* Carl Perry who is involved in the RVI HPC SIG inquired about
shortcomings in Fortran for RISC-V, and whether a gap analysis has been
conducted to identify missing support in the toolchains, including front-end,
target-independent, or backend issues. Ana will connect Carl to Barna Ibrahim
from RISE and ask about RISE projects focused on porting Fortran packages to
RISC-V. Philip mentioned he knows about some of the gaps and will sync up
with Carl on the details. Craig also shared that Flang cross compiler seems to
work.
* Ana shared how Qualcomm supports external instructions to the LLVM toolchain
and a filter to used with objdump and LLDB/GDB plugin for disassembling such
instructions.
* Ana shared a PDF with a subset of Robert's Rules for conducting meetings.
Ana, Christoph and Carl shared some thoughts on rules about meeting minutes
review, whether the majority rules apply to this SIG, and even though this SIG
does not have formal motions, it still has to make decisions across toolchains.
* Reminders for the next meetings:
** Jan 16, 2025: Toolchains
** Jan 30, 2025: psABI
