= Minutes for November 21, 2024

== Attendees

 * Ana Pazos (Qualcomm)
 * Christoph MÃ¼llner (VRULL)
 * Carl Perry (Individual, RVI documentation SIG)
 * Craig Topper (SiFive)
 * Isaac Chute (RISC-V)
 * Liao Shihua (ISCAS)
 * Paul Kirth (Google)
 * Paul Sherman (Individual)
 * Philip (?)
 * Kito Cheng (SiFive)
 * Ruinland (Andes Technology)
 * Simon Cook (Embecosm)

== Artifacts

* https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1foYPLcsS6GhgX1xWtSMNPO-KNgBFxNXD/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=108221621302647420571&rtpof=true&sd=true[Slides]

== Topics
* Ana hosted the meeting.
* Christoph highlighted there are several PRs pending in riscv-gnu-toolchain
and request help from Kito in addressing them.
* Discussed ASM manual PRs and issues:
** #113: Kito explained the reason for the new request.
** #111: Christoph will review the updated patch.
** Issue #112 - Ana will address the question and work on setting up CI job for
the toolchain docs. Carl shared he can help with this task.
* Discussed Toolchain PRs and issues:
** Ana introduced PR #63 and explained the stable/frozen status of the spec.
The spec (currently at 0.4) will be promoted to 1.0 (meaning ratified) once the
assembler support for the instructions is complete and text issues are fixed.
Christoph shared that the T-HEAD PR was up-streamed but merged after the
implementation was complete, and suggested we could follow a similar process.
Ana also suggested splitting the allocation of QC acronym for vendor
prefix and QUALCOMM string for vendor relocation from the rest of the patch.
Ana will further discuss the suggestions with her team.
** Issue #57: Christoph will provide an answer.
* Discussed C-API PRs:
** PR #95 was raised by Kito. He summarized the issue and PR is ready to merge.
Christoph will do it.
** #94: This PR was dismissed. No further action required.
** #93: Craig will review this PR.
** Ana highlighted the assembler improvements in #92 and how it allows defining
new custom instructions at assembler-level only, without changing the toolchain.
This is useful to RVI SIGs, like Scalar Efficiency SIG, to explore new
instructions. Ana is working on open-sourcing sample filters that can be used
with llvm-objdump and lldb to disassemble and debug instructions supported
this way. LLVM already supports the improvements. Kito shared he has working
patches for GCC and will consider upstreaming them.
** Ana shared that there is a new BoD policy under development that will describe
spec versioning format (e.g., MAJOR.MINOR) and rule for promoting versions tying
back to spec status. This change might impact toolchains versioning support.
** Ana shared info on PCC/LFX Tools migration for scheduling meetings. The chairs
will be sending new meeting invites using this new process.
** Ana shared the adoption of Robert's Rules of Order for conducting meetings
that require formal motions. Some of the practices might be useful for the
group to adopt (e.g., when to post agenda, cancel meeting, ensuring equal
opportunity to talk, etc.). Carl and Paul provided further explanation about
the rules and their origins.
** Ana highlighted a few takeaways from the RISC-V NA Summit and the
LLVM Dev Meeting. One attendee also commented favorably on David Patterson's
talk at the summit.
* Reminders for the next meetings:
** Dec 05, 2024: psABI
** Dec 19, 2024: Toolchains
** Jan 02, 2025: psABI - to be confirmed
