= Minutes for February 13, 2025

== Attendees

 * Ana Pazos (Qualcomm)
 * Christoph Müllner (VRULL)
 * Jackson Huff (Individual)
 * Andrei Stan (Technical University of Iasi, RO)
 * Boul Garai (PhD Student@IISc)
 * Chao-ying Fu (MIPS)
 * Craig Blackmore (Embecosm)
 * Hao Lin (Samsung)
 * Isaac Chute (RISC-V)
 * Jiawei (PLCT)
 * Jordan Jerome (Bethrothed Ltd)
 * Kai Cheng (Samsung)
 * Liao ShiHua (Institute of Software Chinese Academy)
 * Mark Zhuang (SpacemiT)
 * Paul Kirth (Google)
 * Paul Sherman (Individual)
 * Petr Hosek (Google LLC)
 * Philip Reames (Rivos)
 * Sam Elliott (Qualcomm, Inc.)
 * Simon Cook (Embecosm Ltd.)
 * Tsukasa OI (?)
 * Victor Lu (Individual)
 * Ziang Wang (?)

== Artifacts
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sWTmsXElP3rZhALMpUPP0ZwcNr4stBajYyZevMK6gqU/edit#slide=id.gb5f973ee2a_0_594[Slides]

== Topics
* Ana provided an overview of the Member Participation & Voting Rights. Each
member should classify themselves as Observer/Participant/Voting Participant.
One voter per org and per individual. If anyone has questions, please contact
help@riscv.org.
* Christoph provided an update on the psABI TG proposal to be a continuous TG
effort presented to the TSC last year. The decision was to form a new psABI TG
for each new release. Since there is planning for a release 2.0., we need to
form a group again. Ana asked Christoph to make the proposal slides/text
available for review and updates. We should review the updated proposal at the
next psABI TG on Feb 27 and vote on it on the next Toolchain SIG meeting.
Ana also to check with Rafael on the next TSC meeting we can join (the meeting
on March 5th might be tight).
* Jackson Huff gave an overview of Chatassembler which runs on Milk-V Duo S
development board. The assembler generates code at runtime. Due to project time
constraints, invoking binutils assembler on shell command line is too slow
for the project. Jackson also highlighted text from the ASM Manual he feels
it needs improvement, e.g., the opening sentence "I think it’s probably better
to beef up the binutils documentation rather than duplicating it here.";
the far branches example.
* Christoph thanked Jackson for his presentation and for his interesting
project and acknowledged there are parts of the Manual that should be updated
and shared that he welcomes new PRs to fix them.
* Paul Sherman expressed two thoughts on the chat and voiced them over:
"That's a very interesting application, Jackson. Two thoughts:
First, perhaps to remove some of the overhead, maybe we can make GNU-as
somewhat less generic and, thus, somewhat more specific only to RISC-V,
thus faster.  Often, overhead and latency is the price paid for commonality
and being generic.
Second, how much would a Just-in-time solution, code creation and execution on
the fly, fit the role, things already like in Extension J? Or example, with an
installation of the toolchain on a MS Windows machine as
"C:\riscv64-unknown-elf\bin" the assembler command riscv64-unknown-elf-as.exe
is a compiled binary, which probably invokes many other binaries of libraries
and executables in the package." In summary, Paul highlighted that an alternative
is to build a GNU assembler version more specific to RISC-V, removing the support
for every other ISA, which should improve its speed.
* Philip Reames shared
https://github.com/iximeow/yaxpeax-arch[a link of possible interest]
and remarked on chat that "Time wise, this topic seems a bit off topic for this group.
Can we move forward with the agenda".
* Tsukasa OI shared in the chat that "There's libopcodes to use (GNU)
disassembler but assembler... I don't think there's no pure library." Also
commented on that LLVM as a library makes it really big for embedded.
* Ana reiterated that issues can be raised for the ASM Manual and PRs are welcome.
* Jackson acknowledged everyone's inputs.
* Ana provided the background on "Create Release" requests (2 so far) to
create release of the documents. Discussion on what classifies as specification and
documentation that needs or does not need ratification. Christoph confirmed that
we can name the SIG's documents as pre-release, they are community documents
that do not require ratification process and build date can be used for naming.
* Meeting proceeded with a review of Toolchain Conventions open PRs/Issues:
** #73, #72, #70. #69, #63, #68.
** Philip Reames provided overview of #72 and the concern with the prefix rv
causing confusion with standard extensions instructions and RV acronym for RISC-V.
He also shared he has alternatives in mind if people reject this prefix, like rvs.
** Paul Sherman shared it is confusingly similar with RVI and whether RV should
be a reserved term? RV can be confused with RISC-V International org.
** Jackson Huffman shared he found the acronym confusing for new people.
** Christoph decided to let LLVM and GNU communities decide about it. He
shared we cannot mandate what some company wants to use as acronym.
* Meeting proceeded with a review of C-API open PRs/Issues:
** #102, #101, #93, #79, #76, #68, #96, #88
* Meeting proceeded with a review of ASM Manual open PRs/Issues:
** Sam provided updates to #122, PR title has been updated to reflect new
feature name.
* Meeting proceeded with a review of activities in riscv-gnu-toolchain
** Bump DejaGnu (to fix a submodule issue)
** Issue with shallow clones of submodules
* Meeting proceed with Open floor questions:
** Victor Lu posted a question on the chat and then voiced it over:
"Does this group cover SPIR- V or other IR as a directly supported IR?"
He shared a https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.00673[related paper].
** Christoph directed him to Vector SIG and explained this SIG does not handle
GPUs.
** Jiawei (PCLT) brought up RISC-V Profilers format, Christoph shared that
patches have gone into LLVM and GCC.
* Reminders for the next meetings:
** Feb 27, 2025: psABI
** Mar 13, 2025: Toolchains (TBD)
** Mar 27, 2025: psABI
** April 10, 2025: Toolchains
** April 24, 2025: psABI
