= Minutes for January 16, 2025

== Attendees

 * Ana Pazos (Qualcomm)
 * Christoph MÃ¼llner (VRULL)
 * Carl Perry (Individual)
 * Craig Topper (SiFive)
 * Deepak (Rivos)
 * Elliott Hughes (Google LLC)
 * Guo Ren (Alibaba, XuanTie)
 * Hao Lin (Samsung)
 * Isaac Chutei (RISC-V)?
 * Jessica Clarke (Cambridge)
 * Jiawei (PLCT)
 * Kito Cheng (SiFive)
 * Kyle Chan (Samsung)
 * Liao Shihua (PLCT-LAB)
 * Paul Kirth (Google)
 * Peter Hosek (Google)
 * Philip Reames (Rivos)
 * Sam Elliott (Qualcomm)
 * Simon Gook (Embecosm)

== Artifacts

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1liZhEIlrWqdcExICTTXwx6EJxPMtMZty-bwCGG3wR7Q/edit#slide=id.gb5f973ee2a_0_594[Slides]

== Topics
* Combined Toolchains and psABI meetings.
* The first half of the meeting addressed Toolchains SIG topics, like the
recent activity in the Toolchain SIG related repos.
* The second half of the meeting addressed psABI topics, including CFI status
update (#417, #434, #452) and other general topics (#381, #453, #454, #455).
* Toolchain conventions document:
** #54: Kito shared that the CFI patch in GCC is ready to be merged.
** #68: Christopher explained the issue with the '.' prefix in vendor
CSR name casing gdb parsing of command lines to fail. Jessica suggested
passing the CSR name with quotes to allow gdb to interpret it differently.
Jessica will also add this suggestion to the raised issue.
** #69: Christopher explained the standard he follows when adding new
vendor extension to the toolchain conventions spec. He expects that a link
to a document that describes the extensions and versions be included in the
commit. Sam shared the standard should allow more flexibility. Christopher
shared that patches to add vendor prefix might be still under review but the
prefix can be considered as reserved, even though links to further documentation
might be pending.
** #71: Ana highlighted that this request for adding CHERI vendor prefix was
reviewed and ready to be merged.
** #70: Sam clarified that the compiler-rt behavior is following all ABI specs,
except for EABI (ilp32e). LLVM is correctly emitting CFI info, but compiler-rt
is not following it. Sam has a compiler-rt patch ready to be pushed, waiting
for LLVM and GCC to agree on a solution. Jessica and Kito seem to agree with
Sam's text changes in the PR.
* C-API document:
** #68: LLVM patch is close to land, and then we will be ready to merge #68.
** #76: Kito to revisit it, waiting for LLVM patch to be approved, this PR
is still in draft stage.
** #79: Christopher shared he is ok with the patch. But there was some
discussion on whether LR/SC builtins should be excluded since that code
has to be written in assembly for tight control on pairing the instructions.
Additional comments to be added to the PR by Jessica.
** #85: It was resolved and merged.
* ASM Manual document:
** #99, #113: Not discussed since they are in draft state.
** #122: Sam summarized the proposal. Discussion on whether the directive would
impact pseudo branches. Kito also raised that it might be a problem with other
pseudos like  li, call/tail call. Discussion on whether a more descriptive name
is needed (since it might compress or expand instructions).
* riscv-gnu-toolchain repo:
** Christopher shared that the LLVM version was bumped to 19.1.7.
* psABI topics discussed:
** CFI related PRs #417, $434, #452: Deepak and Kito clarified on the need for
landing pad relocation to allow the linker to remove the landing pad if it
meets certain conditions. Implementation in LLVM is ready and stable, GCC
implementation is WIP.
** #381: Kito described the changes related to choosing more expressive
name and removing address space limitation to allow full 4 GB address space
from the specification. Elliott questioned why people think this ABI will
succeed when ARM's has failed and has deprecated the ilp32 on 64-bit. Jessica
shared Elliott's concern. But it was agreed to make it an experimental ABI
so that THead, Andes, SiFive can experiment with it.
** #453: Sam explained the issue and brainstormed possible solutions:
local / map symbol (not clear how to associate it with the relocation);
arbitrary local symbol; avoid lib resolution for that type of symbol;
consider it a special symbol type and prevent users from using the symbol;
each vendor has a RISC-V session with symbol attribute. Kito tends to agree
with a local /map symbol solution would be ok. But there are complications
with the LLVM assembler to make the local symbol be defined in the same place
where the relocation is applied. It was also discussed that the title for this
issue needs to be more descriptive. It was also agreed that a discussion
about the best way to define the RISC-V vendor symbol should be started in
a separate issue. Sam to create the new issue and list the possible
alternatives for further discussion.
** #454: This is a popular topic in the community. Compilers seem to have
been fixed, but wording in the spec was not corrected yet. Also, waiting
for the compiler patches to stabilize. Philip suggested marking the issue as
an indefinite referral and not a rejection (motivation behind it is performance
not correctness). He asked Kito to be careful on how closure is communicated.
Kito plans to keep it open for a long time to revisit it if needed. Craig
shared that intrinsic code might expose performance issues. Overall, the
opinion is that current implementation requires more testing cycles.
** #455: Kito confirmed this PR is in good shape, might be ready to be merged.
* Ana and Christopher shared warning about RVI meetings migrating to
LFX tools and people should expect updated meeting invites.

* Reminders for the next meetings:
** Feb 13, 2025: Toolchains
** Feb 27, 2025: psABI
